Cloud IDE tutorial - simple ML model (#1413)
astronomer/docs: learn/cloud-ide-tutorial.md

---
title: 'Write a simple ML pipeline using the Cloud IDE'
sidebar_label: 'Cloud IDE - Simple ML pipeline'
id: cloud-ide-tutorial
description: 'Use tutorials and guides to make the most out of Airflow and Astronomer.'
---

Developing your pipelines has never been easier than using the Cloud IDE on Astro.

This tutorial is for people who are Astro customers and want to create their first simple ML pipeline in the Cloud IDE.

After you complete this tutorial, you'll be able to:

- Create a Cloud IDE project with a pipeline.
- Configure connections and requirements in the Cloud IDE.
- Run a query on a table in a database from the Cloud IDE.
- Transform a table in a database from the Cloud IDE.
- Train a simple ML model in the Cloud IDE.
- Export a DAG from the Cloud IDE to GitHub.
- Configure GitHub Secrets to deploy your DAG to Astro.

## Time to complete

This tutorial takes approximately 1 hour to complete.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

> - Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).

Reviewer: Hmm....yeah I could go either way with this one. We do imply things in this section should be read prior, but in reality I doubt anyone does that :) so seems a decent place to link to them. For the Astro SDK tutorial we link to the documentation in the conclusion `As a next step, read the [Astro Python SDK documentation](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/) to learn more about its functionality and task decorators.`, so maybe we should copy that pattern.

> - Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).

Author: That is true! I added it both, a bullet point in assumed knowledge and a sentence in the conclusion :)

- Basic SQL. See the [W3 Schools SQL tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/)

## Step 1: Create your Cloud IDE project

In your Astro Cloud workspace click on the **Cloud IDE** tab in the navigation bar on the left. Create a new Cloud IDE project with the **+ Project** button in the right upper corner of the screen.

PLACEHOLDER image of creating a project (feature not turned on yet)

## Step 2: Create a new pipeline

Click on **+ Pipeline** to create a new pipeline. Give it a name and description and click **Create**.

![Create new pipeline](/img/guides/cloud_ide_new_project.png)

## Step 3: Configure a connection

Navigate to the **Connections** tab in your Cloud IDE project. Here you can define connections to external tools which can be used by all pipelines in your project. Click on **+ Connection** to add a new connection. We will use Snowflake in this tutorial but you can also use Postgres, Bigquery or Redshift. 

In the UI provide your connection credentials as shown in the screenshots below.

![Configure a connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_new_connection.png)

![Configure a connection 2](/img/guides/cloud_ide_new_connection_2.png)

> After entering your credentials click the **Test Connection button** to make sure Astro is able to connect to Snowflake. If your credentials are correct, a green banner will appear above saying "Connection successfully tested". Save the connection by clicking **Create Connection**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After entering your credentials click the **Test Connection button** to make sure Astro is able to connect to your database. If your credentials are correct, a green banner will appear above saying "Connection successfully tested". Save the connection by clicking **Create Connection**.
```
Just a note, I didn't see any green banner after testing the connection (I didn't see any "result" at all) - not sure if me or some sort of bug

> ## Step 4: Add required python packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Add required Python packages
```

Navigate to the **Requirements** tab in your Cloud IDE project. Under this tab you can add any Python packages that you are planning to use in Cloud IDE Python cells within this Cloud IDE project. To create our simple ML model we will need the `scikit-learn` package. Add this package by clicking on **+ Requirement** and typing `scikit-learn` into the "package name" field. Select the latest version and click **Add**.

![Add scikit-learn](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_sklearn.png)

> ## Step 5: Import a dataset into your database

Reviewer: I almost might put this step first, since that's how we've done it with other tutorials (set up the external systems first), and it's less back and forth between the cloud IDE and snowflake. Unless I'm missing some reason it needs to happen after those other steps

> In this tutorial we will use the try to predict the intelligence of a dog breed based on their upper and lower height and weight limits. Download [this dataset](PLACEHOLDER LINK) and import it into your database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we will try to predict the intelligence of a dog breed based on their upper and lower height and weight limits. Download [this dataset](PLACEHOLDER LINK) and import it into your database. 
```

> In this tutorial we will use the try to predict the intelligence of a dog breed based on their upper and lower height and weight limits. Download [this dataset](PLACEHOLDER LINK) and import it into your database. 

Reviewer: If the data is coming from somewhere that you need to create an account to download it (like Kaggle), maybe we should put it as a prerequisite.

If you are using Snowflake follow these steps:

1. Run the following SQL statement in a Snowflake worksheet to create the target table:

```sql 
CREATE TABLE dog_intelligence (
    BREED varchar(50),
    HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES INT,
    HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES INT,
    WEIGHT_LOW_LBS INT,
    WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS INT,
    REPS_LOWER INT,
    REPS_UPPER INT
);
```

2. Run this SQL statement to create the file format `my_csv_format`:

```sql
CREATE FILE FORMAT my_csv_format
    TYPE = csv
    FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
    SKIP_HEADER = 1
    NULL_IF = ('NULL', 'null')
    EMPTY_FIELD_AS_NULL = true;
```

> 3. Use the ["Loading Using the Web Interface" wizard](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-web-ui.html) by navigating to the `dog_intelligence` table in the **Datasets** tab of the Snowflake UI and clicking on **Load Table**. Select the `dog_intelligence.csv` file you downloaded as the "Source File" and `my_csv_format` as the "File Format".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use the ["Loading Using the Web Interface" wizard](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-web-ui.html) by navigating to the `dog_intelligence` table in the **Databases** tab of the Snowflake UI and clicking on **Load Table**. Select the `dog_intelligence.csv` file you downloaded as the "Source File" and `my_csv_format` as the "File Format".
```
I think it should be "Databases" tab?

![Load csv Snowflake](/img/guides/cloud_ide_load_csv.png)

## Step 6: Query your table

> Navigate back to your Cloud IDE on Astro.

Reviewer: Note that here they would still be on the Requirements tab, so they need to click back into their pipeline

1. Create your first SQL cell by clicking on **Add Cell** in the topleft corner and selecting **SQL**. 

2. Rename your cell from `cell_1` to `query_table`. This will also change the name of your task in the pipeline view on the right side of the screen.

> 3. Paste the following SQL code into your cell to select all records that do not contain any NULL values in any column:

Reviewer: Should note explicitly that they need to update their database and schema

```sql 
SELECT * FROM <your database>.<your_schema>.DOG_INTELLIGENCE 
WHERE CONCAT(BREED, HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS, REPS_UPPER, REPS_LOWER) IS NOT NULL
```

4. Select your Snowflake connection as shown in the screenshot below.

![Select Snowflake Connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_select_connection.png)

5. Run the cell by either clicking on the play button next to the connection field or by hitting Command + Enter.

Running the cell will create a temporary table in your database containing the output from your query.
With the **Table Expression** box activated you should now see the output containing of 136 rows below the cell.

![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_query_table.png)

> Our dataset contains information about the height, weight and how fast dogs of different breeds learned commands in 7 columns:

Reviewer: Does the user need to know the contents of the columns for later in the tutorial? Wondering if we need all these bullets, or if we can just say something general about what the data contains.

- breed: the breed of the dogs in the experiement.
- height_low_inches: height of the smallest dog of one specific breed.
- height_high_inches: height of the largest dog of one specific breed.
- weight_low_lbs: weight of the lightest dog of one specific breed.
- weight_high_lbs: weight of the heaviest dog of one specific breed.
- reps_lower: lowest repetitions necessary for a dog of a specific breed to learn a new command.
- reps_higher: highest repetitions necessary for a dog of a specific breed to learn a new command.

## Step 7: Transform your table

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a short sentence up front here about why we need to transform the table?

1. Create a second SQL cell.

2. Rename the cell from `cell_1` to `transform_table`.

3. Select the same connection as in your `query_table` cell. 

4. Copy the following SQL statement into the cell:

```sql 
SELECT HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS,
    CASE WHEN reps_upper <= 25 THEN 'very_smart_dog'
    ELSE 'smart_dog'
    END AS INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY
FROM {{query_table}}
```

You will notice that pasting this SQL statement will automatically create a dependency between `query_table` and `transform_table` in the pipeline view on the right side of the screen (see the screenshot below). This happens because the SQL statement in `transform_table` references the temporary table created by the `query_table` task using Jinja syntax `{{query_table}}`.

![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cell_dependency.png)

5. Run the cell.

> In the output table you can see that this SQL statement created a new transformed temporary table with an binary `INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY` column we can use as a target for our classification model. All dogs who at most needed 25 repetitions to learn a new command are put in the `very_smart_dog` category. All other dogs in the `smart_dog` category (because of course, all dogs are smart).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the output table you can see that this SQL statement created a new transformed temporary table with a binary `INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY` column which will be used as a target for your classification model. All dogs who needed 25 or fewer repetitions to learn a new command are put in the `very_smart_dog` category. All other dogs are put in the `smart_dog` category (because of course, all dogs are smart).
```

> The predictors in our model will be the height and weight-related columns.

Reviewer: This seems a little out of place - I think somewhere we should have a few sentences of context about what the data is and what model we will be training. Maybe in the intro? I might make a later comment on where to add it as I keep reading :)

## Step 8: Train a model on your data

> 

Reviewer: Add something here like "Train a random forest model to predict dog intelligence based on height and weight." before we go into the steps.

baseline_accuracy = df.iloc[:,-1].value_counts(normalize=True)[0]

# selecting predictors (X) and the target (y)
X = df.iloc[:,:-1]
y = df.iloc[:,-1]

# split the data into training data (80%) and testing data (20%)
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
    X, y, test_size=0.20, random_state=23
)

# standardize features
scaler = StandardScaler()
X_train_s = scaler.fit_transform(X_train)
X_test_s = scaler.transform(X_test)

# train a RandomForestClassifier on the training data
model = RandomForestClassifier(max_depth=3, random_state=19)
model.fit(X_train_s, y_train)

# score the trained model on the testing data
score = model.score(X_test_s, y_test)

# get feature importances
feature_importances = list(zip(X_train.columns, model.feature_importances_))

return f"baseline accuracy: {baseline_accuracy}", f"model accuracy: {score}", feature_importances 
```

You will notice again how the Cloud IDE will automatically create a dependency between the `transform_table` task and the `model_task` task. The Python code above references the `transform_table` object returned from the `tranform_table` cell directly (without Jinja syntax) on line 6. 

The Python code:

> - imports necessary functions and classes from the scikit-learn package.

Reviewer: Capitalize the start of all these bullets

- splits the data into a training and testing set.
- standardizes the predicting features.
- trains a [RandomForestClassifier model](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest) on the training data.
- scores the trained model on the testing data.

4. Run the cell.

The output of the cell will show you both the baseline and the model accuracy. With the model accuracy being higher than baseline we can conclude that height and weight of dogs have a correlation (but not necessarily causation!) with how many repetitions they need to learn a new command. 

![Model output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_model_output.png)

The feature importances give you an idea which of the predictor columns were most important in the model to predict the intelligence category. The `weight_low_lbs`, the lower end of the weights of the dogs examined for a breed, gave the most information to the model for our small dataset.

:::info

To learn more about random forests check out this [MLU explain article](https://mlu-explain.github.io/random-forest/).

:::

## Step 9: Connect your GitHub to the Cloud IDE

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a sentence here on why we want to do this? Something like "Now that you have trained the model, you can connect GitHub to...."

1. Click on the GitHub **Configure** button in the topright corner of your screen to connect your Cloud IDE Project to your GitHub account.

![Connect to GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_github_conn.png)

2. Enter your personal access token and the name of an existing GitHub repository that contains an Astro project. 

3. Click update to save your connection details.

:::info

> If you do not have a GitHub account, you can create one for free on the [GitHub website](https://github.com/signup). To create a personal access token, see the [official GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).

Reviewer: Let's move this under prerequisites

:::

## Step 10: Commit your DAG to GitHub

Export your DAG by commiting it to your connected GitHub repository. 

Click the branch you want to commit to and provide a commit message. Note that you cannot commit to a branch called `main`. 

![Connect to GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_commit_to_github.png)

Your DAG will be added to the `/dags` folder in your GitHub repository.

![Dags folder on GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_dags_github.png)

:::info

If you made changes to several DAGs you can select which changes to commit by checking the boxes to the left of the difference view.

:::

:::caution

> If a DAG with the same file as a file name already exists (i.e. if you already had a file named `dog_smarts_pipeline` in the `/dags` folder of this repository) the Cloud IDE will overwrite the existing file. For this reason it is best practise to use a seperate branch for commits from your Cloud IDE environment than for commits from other sources to the same repository.

Reviewer: should this be "same filename as your cloud IDE pipeline name"? "same file as a file name" confused me

Author: Oh yes that is a typo. The first one is correct.

:::

## Step 11: Deploy your DAG to Astro 

> Additionally, the Cloud IDE will create a GitHub workflow to deploy to Astro in `.github/workflows/astro_deploy.yaml`.

Reviewer: I think the start of this step needs more context. Is "additionally" to what happened in Step 10?

Author: Yes, additionally in the sense that the Cloud IDE creates the DAGfile and the workflow

![Configure a connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_connection.png)

![Configure a connection 2](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_connection_2.png)

3. Use the **Test Connection button** to make sure Astro is able to connect to your database. If your credentials are correct, a green banner will appear above saying "Connection successfully tested". 

4. Save the connection by clicking **Create Connection**.

:::info

You can also add connections, variables and requirements to your Cloud IDE project from the project overview.

:::

## Step 4: Add required Python packages

Navigate to the **Requirements** tab in the pipeline editor "Environment" section. Under this tab you can add any Python packages that you are planning to use in Cloud IDE Python cells within this Cloud IDE project. To create our simple ML model we will need the `scikit-learn` package. Add this package by clicking on **+ Requirement** and typing `scikit-learn` into the "package name" field. Select the latest version and click **Add**.

![Add scikit-learn](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_requirement.png)

## Step 5: Import a dataset into your database

> In this tutorial we will try to predict the intelligence of a dog breed based on their upper and lower height and weight limits. Download the [ dog_intelligence.csv ] PLACEHOLDER LINK dataset which is a slightly changed version of [this dataset on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jasleensondhi/dog-intelligence-comparison-based-on-size) and import it into your database. 

Reviewer: I think we should add the note about Kaggle in an info box

> In this tutorial we will try to predict the intelligence of a dog breed based on their upper and lower height and weight limits. Download the [ dog_intelligence.csv ] PLACEHOLDER LINK dataset which is a slightly changed version of [this dataset on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jasleensondhi/dog-intelligence-comparison-based-on-size) and import it into your database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have your Cloud IDE project set up, you can move on to creating an ML pipeline. For this tutorial you will try to predict the intelligence of a dog breed based on their upper and lower height and weight limits. Download the [ dog_intelligence.csv ] PLACEHOLDER LINK dataset which is a slightly changed version of [this dataset on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jasleensondhi/dog-intelligence-comparison-based-on-size) and import it into your database. 
```

> If you are using Snowflake follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I would remove this sentence and add an info or note box somewhere below the steps that says these steps are specific to Snowflake and may need to be modified for other db's

    HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES INT,
    HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES INT,
    WEIGHT_LOW_LBS INT,
    WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS INT,
    REPS_LOWER INT,
    REPS_UPPER INT
);
```

2. Run this SQL statement to create the file format `my_csv_format`:

```sql
CREATE FILE FORMAT my_csv_format
    TYPE = csv
    FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
    SKIP_HEADER = 1
    NULL_IF = ('NULL', 'null')
    EMPTY_FIELD_AS_NULL = true;
```

3. Use the ["Loading Using the Web Interface" wizard](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-web-ui.html) by navigating to the `dog_intelligence` table in the **Databases** tab of the Snowflake UI and clicking on **Load Table**. Select the `dog_intelligence.csv` file you downloaded as the "Source File" and `my_csv_format` as the "File Format".

![Load csv Snowflake](/img/guides/cloud_ide_load_csv.png)

## Step 6: Query your table

Navigate back to your Cloud IDE on Astro.

1. Create your first SQL cell by clicking on **Add Cell** in the topleft corner and selecting **SQL**. 

2. Rename your cell from `cell_1` to `query_table`.

3. In the right sidebar click on the top "Pipeline" icon to view your cell in the pipeline view.

![Pipeline View](/img/guides/cloud_ide_pipeline_view.png)

> 4. Paste the following SQL code into your cell to select all records that do not contain any NULL values in any column. Make sure to add your database and schema name to in the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Paste the following SQL code into your cell. This query will select all records that do not contain any NULL values in any column. Make sure to update the query with your database and schema name.
```

```sql 
SELECT * FROM <your database>.<your_schema>.DOG_INTELLIGENCE 
WHERE CONCAT(BREED, HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, 
WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS, REPS_UPPER, REPS_LOWER) IS NOT NULL
```

5. Select your Snowflake connection as shown in the screenshot below.

![Select Snowflake Connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_select_connection.png)

6. Run the cell by either clicking on the play button next to the connection field or by hitting Command + Enter.

Running the cell will create a temporary table in your database containing the output from your query.

> With the **Table Expression** box activated you should now see the output containing of 136 rows below the cell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the **Table Expression** box activated you should now see the output containing 136 rows below the cell.
```

![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_query_table.png)

> Our dataset contains information about the height, weight and how fast dogs of different breeds learned commands in 7 columns. `reps_lower` and `reps_higher` contain the lower and upper bounds of how many repetitions of a new command a dog of a breed needed to learn it. We will use this value to sort our dogs in two categories which will be the target of our classification model. The predictors will be the four columns containing height and weight information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dataset has 7 columns containing information about the height, weight, breed, and learning speed of different dogs. The `reps_lower` and `reps_higher` columns contain the lower and upper bounds of how many repetitions of a new command each breed of dog needed to learn it. This value is used to sort the dogs into two categories which will be the target of your classification model. The predictors will be the four columns containing height and weight information.
```

## Step 7: Transform your table

> Transform the data in your table to convert the dog intelligence data from repetitions needed to learn commands to a binary intelligence category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can train the model, you first need to transform the data in your table to convert the command repetitions to a binary intelligence category.
```

1. Create a second SQL cell.

2. Rename the cell from `cell_1` to `transform_table`.

3. Select the same connection as in your `query_table` cell. 

4. Copy the following SQL statement into the cell:

```sql 
SELECT HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS,
    CASE WHEN reps_upper <= 25 THEN 'very_smart_dog'
    ELSE 'smart_dog'
    END AS INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY
FROM {{query_table}}
```

You will notice that pasting this SQL statement will automatically create a dependency between `query_table` and `transform_table` in the pipeline view on the right side of the screen (see the screenshot below). This happens because the SQL statement in `transform_table` references the temporary table created by the `query_table` task using Jinja syntax `{{query_table}}`.

![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cell_dependency.png)

5. Run the cell.

> In the output table you can see that this SQL statement created a new transformed temporary table with a binary `INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY` column which will be used as a target for your classification model. All dogs who needed 25 or fewer repetitions to learn a new command are put in the `very_smart_dog` category. All other dogs are put in the `smart_dog` category (because of course, all dogs are smart).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output table should contain a new binary `INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY` column which will be used as a target for your classification model. All dogs who needed 25 or fewer repetitions to learn a new command are put in the `very_smart_dog` category. All other dogs are put in the `smart_dog` category (because of course, all dogs are smart).
```

# calculate baseline accuracy
baseline_accuracy = df.iloc[:,-1].value_counts(normalize=True)[0]

# selecting predictors (X) and the target (y)
X = df.iloc[:,:-1]
y = df.iloc[:,-1]

# split the data into training data (80%) and testing data (20%)
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
    X, y, test_size=0.20, random_state=23
)

# standardize features
scaler = StandardScaler()
X_train_s = scaler.fit_transform(X_train)
X_test_s = scaler.transform(X_test)

# train a RandomForestClassifier on the training data
model = RandomForestClassifier(max_depth=3, random_state=19)
model.fit(X_train_s, y_train)

# score the trained model on the testing data
score = model.score(X_test_s, y_test)

# get feature importances
feature_importances = list(zip(X_train.columns, model.feature_importances_))

return f"baseline accuracy: {baseline_accuracy}", f"model accuracy: {score}", feature_importances 
```

You will notice again how the Cloud IDE will automatically create a dependency between the `transform_table` task and the `model_task` task. The Python code above references the `transform_table` object returned from the `tranform_table` cell directly (without Jinja syntax) on line 6. 

> The Python code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Python code completes the following steps:
```

- Separates out predictors (height and weight information) and the target (the intelligence category).
- Splits the data into a training and testing set.
- Standardizes the predicting features.
- Trains a [RandomForestClassifier model](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest) on the training data.
- Scores the trained model on the testing data.

4. Run the cell.

The output of the cell will show you both the baseline and the model accuracy. With the model accuracy being higher than baseline we can conclude that height and weight of dogs have a correlation (but not necessarily causation!) with how many repetitions they need to learn a new command. 

![Model output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_model_output.png)

The feature importances give you an idea which of the predictor columns were most important in the model to predict the intelligence category. The `weight_low_lbs`, the lower end of the weights of the dogs examined for a breed, gave the most information to the model for our small dataset.

:::info

To learn more about random forests check out this [MLU explain article](https://mlu-explain.github.io/random-forest/).

:::

> ## Step 9: Schedule your pipeline

Reviewer: What does scheduling the pipeline within the Cloud IDE do if you don't convert it to a DAG and deploy it to Astro? In general, somewhere in here I think we should be a bit more explicit about the difference between an IDE pipeline and an Airflow DAG, and how to bridge the gap between the two (presumably steps 10-12, but let's make that clear to the reader).

Author: Hmm.. I don't think the option of not converting it to a DAG exists, the only way I can see is by committing the pipeline to GitHub which always converts it to a DAG. But maybe I misunderstood something there? 

I added a chapter about viewing the converted DAG code with a screenshot and tried to explain the difference between the IDE and running the DAG on Airflow there :)

Click on the calendar symbol ("Schedule") in the right sidebar to see possibilities to schedule your DAG. 

> 1. Set the "START DATE" to the 31st of October 2022.

Reviewer: Maybe we should say "the start of your work week" or something generic so that people aren't scheduling pipelines way in the past if they follow this a year from now :)

Author: Haha good point, I just now realized you can't set catchup in the UI, will ask the team if they want to auto set that in the converted DAG code 😅 . I told the user to use yesterday's date.

:::

## Step 12: Deploy your DAG to Astro 

When you commit a Cloud IDE pipeline to a GitHub repository, the Cloud IDE will create a GitHub workflow of the name `astro_deploy.yaml` in case it does not exist yet.

1. Configure [GitHub Actions](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd?tab=multibranch#github-actions) by setting the following as [GitHub secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository):

- DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID = `<your-dev-key-id>`
- DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET = `<your-dev-key-secret>`
- DEV_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID = `<your-deployment-id>`

2. Send a second commit from the Cloud IDE to trigger the configured GitHub workflow to deploy your DAG to Astro

If GitHub Actions is already configured for your chosen repository the new DAG will be deployed automatically with the first commit.

:::info

Learn more on how to set up CI/CD with GitHub Actions in the [Astro Module: CI/CD](https://academy.astronomer.io/astro-module-cicd).

:::

> PLACEHOLDER - image of the DAG shown on Astro (once I get a cluster)

Reviewer: Now that I've read the whole thing again, I think a short conclusion section with a link to the cloud IDE docs like we have in the SDK tutorial would be good here. https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk

---
title: 'Write and schedule a simple ML pipeline using the Astro Cloud IDE'

> sidebar_label: 'Astro Cloud IDE - Simple ML pipeline'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Astro Cloud IDE - Write an ML pipeline'
```
I like this format of showing both the subject and the context in the sidebar. We could do something similar with "Astro Python SDK - Write an ETL DAG"

1. Click **Environment** to add connections, variables, and dependencies to your Astro Cloud IDE project. 

    ![Configure a connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_environment_button.png)

2. Click **+ Connection** to add a new connection. This tutorial uses Snowflake as an example, but you can also use Postgres, Bigquery, or Redshift. 

    Provide your connection credentials as shown in the following screenshots:

    ![Configure a connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_connection.png)

    ![Configure a connection 2](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_connection_2.png)

3. Click **Test Connection** to confirm that Astro can connect to your database. If your credentials are correct, a green banner will appear above saying "Connection successfully tested". 

4. Click **Create Connection** to save your changes.

## Step 4: Add required Python packages

In the same section where you configured your database connection, open the **Requirements** tab. Here you can add any Python packages that you need for your project. To create the simple ML model, you need to add the `scikit-learn` package. 

1. Click **+ Requirements**

> 2. In the "Package name" field, type `scikit-learn`. The Astro Cloud IDE produces a list of packages to chose from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the "Package name" field, type `scikit-learn`. The Astro Cloud IDE produces a list of packages to choose from.
```

Author: One day I'll get this right. 🤦

3. Select the latest version at the top of the list and click **Add**.

> ![Add scikit-learn](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_requirement.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Add scikit-learn](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_requirement.png)
```

## Step 5: Import a dataset into your database

Now that you've set up the environment for your pipelines, you can create pipelines - starting with your source data! For this tutorial you will try to predict the intelligence of a dog breed based on their upper and lower limits for weight and height. 

:::info

> The dataset we use in this tutorial is a slightly modified version of [this dataset on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jasleensondhi/dog-intelligence-comparison-based-on-size). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dataset used in this tutorial is a slightly modified version of [this dataset on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jasleensondhi/dog-intelligence-comparison-based-on-size). 
```

:::

1. Download the [dog_intelligence.csv](https://github.com/astronomer/learn-tutorials-data/blob/main/dog_intelligence.csv) dataset.

2. Run the following SQL statement in a Snowflake worksheet to create the target table:

    ```sql 
    CREATE TABLE dog_intelligence (
        BREED varchar(50),
        HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES INT,
        HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES INT,
        WEIGHT_LOW_LBS INT,
        WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS INT,
        REPS_LOWER INT,
        REPS_UPPER INT
    );
    ```

3. Run this SQL statement to create the file format `my_csv_format`:

    ```sql
    CREATE FILE FORMAT my_csv_format
        TYPE = csv
        FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
        SKIP_HEADER = 1
        NULL_IF = ('NULL', 'null')
        EMPTY_FIELD_AS_NULL = true;
    ```

4. In the Snowflake UI, go to the `dog_intelligence` table in **Databases** and click on **Load Table**.
5. Use the ["Loading Using the Web Interface" wizard](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-web-ui.html). Select the `dog_intelligence.csv` file you downloaded as the **Source File** and `my_csv_format` as the **File Format**.

> ![Load csv Snowflake](/img/guides/cloud_ide_load_csv.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Load csv Snowflake](/img/guides/cloud_ide_load_csv.png)
```

2. Rename your cell from `cell_1` to `query_table`.

3. Click **Pipeline** to view your cell as a data pipeline.

    ![Pipeline View](/img/guides/cloud_ide_pipeline_view.png)

4. Paste the following SQL code into your cell. This query selects all records that do not contain any `NULL` values in any column. Make sure to update the query with your database and schema name.

    ```sql 
    SELECT * FROM <your database>.<your_schema>.DOG_INTELLIGENCE 
    WHERE CONCAT(BREED, HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, 
    WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS, REPS_UPPER, REPS_LOWER) IS NOT NULL
    ```

5. Add your Snowflake connection to the cell as shown in the following screenshot:

    ![Select Snowflake Connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_select_connection.png)

6. Make sure that the **Table Expression** checkbox is checked to create a temporary in your database and view the output below your SQL cell upon running it.

7. Run the cell by clicking the play button next to the connection.

8. Below the cell, click **RESULTS** to see the output containing 136 rows.

> ![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_query_table.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_query_table.png)
```

The dataset has 7 columns containing information about the height, weight, breed, and learning speed of different dogs. The `reps_lower` and `reps_higher` columns contain the lower and upper bounds of how many repetitions of a new command each breed of dog needed to learn it. This value is used to sort the dogs into two categories which will be the target of your classification model. The predictors will be the four columns containing height and weight information.

## Step 7: Transform your table

Before you can train the model, you first need to transform the data in your table to convert the command repetitions to a binary intelligence category.

1. Create a second SQL cell.

2. Rename the cell from `cell_1` to `transform_table`.

3. Select the same connection as in your `query_table` cell. 

4. Copy the following SQL statement into the cell:

    ```sql 
    SELECT HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS,
        CASE WHEN reps_upper <= 25 THEN 'very_smart_dog'
        ELSE 'smart_dog'
        END AS INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY
    FROM {{query_table}}
    ```

> Notice that after you create this cell, the Astro Cloud IDE automatically creates a dependency between `query_table` and `transform_table` in the pipeline view. This happens because the SQL statement in `transform_table` references the temporary table created by the `query_table` task using the Jinja syntax `{{query_table}}`.
> 
> ![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cell_dependency.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Notice that after you create this cell, the Astro Cloud IDE automatically creates a dependency between `query_table` and `transform_table` in the pipeline view. This happens because the SQL statement in `transform_table` references the temporary table created by the `query_table` task using the Jinja syntax `{{query_table}}`.

    ![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cell_dependency.png)
```

    from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier

    # use the table returned from the transform_table cell
    df = transform_table

    # calculate baseline accuracy
    baseline_accuracy = df.iloc[:,-1].value_counts(normalize=True)[0]

    # selecting predictors (X) and the target (y)
    X = df.iloc[:,:-1]
    y = df.iloc[:,-1]

    # split the data into training data (80%) and testing data (20%)
    X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
        X, y, test_size=0.20, random_state=23
    )

    # standardize features
    scaler = StandardScaler()
    X_train_s = scaler.fit_transform(X_train)
    X_test_s = scaler.transform(X_test)

    # train a RandomForestClassifier on the training data
    model = RandomForestClassifier(max_depth=3, random_state=19)
    model.fit(X_train_s, y_train)

    # score the trained model on the testing data
    score = model.score(X_test_s, y_test)

    # get feature importances
    feature_importances = list(zip(X_train.columns, model.feature_importances_))

    return f"""
    baseline accuracy: {baseline_accuracy},\n
    model accuracy: {score},\n
    feature importances: {feature_importances}
    """ 
    ```

> You will notice again how the Astro Cloud IDE will automatically create a dependency between the `transform_table` task and the `model_task` task. The Python code above references the `transform_table` object returned from the `tranform_table` cell directly (without Jinja syntax) on line 6. 
> 
> The Python code completes the following steps:
> 
> - Import necessary functions and classes from the `scikit-learn` package.
> - Calculate the baseline accuracy, which is the accuracy you would get if you always guessed the most common outcome (in our data `smart_dog`).
> - Separate out predictors (height and weight information) and the target (the intelligence category).
> - Split the data into a training and testing set.
> - Standardize the predicting features.
> - Train a [RandomForestClassifier model](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest) on the training data.
> - Score the trained model on the testing data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You will notice again how the Astro Cloud IDE will automatically create a dependency between the `transform_table` task and the `model_task` task. The Python code above references the `transform_table` object returned from the `transform_table` cell directly (without Jinja syntax) on line 6. 

    The Python code completes the following steps:

    - Import necessary functions and classes from the `scikit-learn` package.
    - Calculate the baseline accuracy, which is the accuracy you would get if you always guessed the most common outcome (in our data `smart_dog`).
    - Separate out predictors (height and weight information) and the target (the intelligence category).
    - Split the data into a training and testing set.
    - Standardize the predicting features.
    - Train a [RandomForestClassifier model](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest) on the training data.
    - Score the trained model on the testing data.
```

1. Click **Code**. You can see that your pipeline was automatically converted to DAG code using the [Astro SDK](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk-etl).

    ![View Code](/img/guides/cloud_ide_code_view.png)

2. Click **Download** to download the DAG file.

## Step 11: Connect your GitHub to the Astro Cloud IDE

Now that you have trained the model, you can connect GitHub to the Astro Cloud IDE to commit your pipeline as a DAG to any Airflow project.

1. Click **Configure** to connect your Astro Cloud IDE Project to your GitHub account.

    ![Connect to GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_github_conn.png)

2. Enter your personal access token and the name of an existing GitHub repository that contains an Astro project. 

3. Click **Update** to save your connection details.

## Step 12: Commit your DAG to GitHub

Export your DAG by commiting it to your connected GitHub repository. 

1. Click the branch you want to commit to (in the screenshot below the `cloud-ide-branch`) and provide a commit message. Note that you cannot commit to a branch called `main`. 

    ![Connect to GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_commit_to_github.png)

> :::caution
> 
> If a file with the same name as your Astro Cloud IDE pipeline already exists in your GitHub repository, the Astro Cloud IDE will overwrite the existing file. For this reason, Astronomer recommends using a separate branch for commits from your Astro Cloud IDE environment than for commits from other sources to the same repository.
> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :::caution

  If a file with the same name as your Astro Cloud IDE pipeline already exists in your GitHub repository, the Astro Cloud IDE will overwrite the existing file. For this reason, Astronomer recommends using a separate branch for commits from your Astro Cloud IDE environment than for commits from other sources to the same repository.

  :::
```

2. Scroll through the list of changes and make sure that only changes are checked that you want to commit. The Astro Cloud IDE will offer to commit versions of Astro project configuration files, as well as a GitHub workflow. Note that all pipeline changes in a given Astro Cloud IDE project will be listed to be selected for the commit, not only the changes to the pipeline you are currently editing.

> Your DAG will be added to the `/dags` folder in your GitHub repository.
> 
> ![Dags folder on GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_dags_github.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Your DAG will be added to the `/dags` folder in your GitHub repository.

    ![Dags folder on GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_dags_github.png)
```

![Model output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_model_output.png)

The feature importances give you an idea which of the predictor columns were most important in the model to predict the intelligence category. The `weight_low_lbs`, the lower end of the weights of the dogs examined for a breed, gave the most information to the model for our small dataset.

To learn more about random forests check out this [MLU explain article](https://mlu-explain.github.io/random-forest/).

## Step 9: Pick a schedule for your pipeline

Setting a schedule for your pipeline will determine how this pipeline will be scheduled once it is deployed to Astro as a DAG. Within the Astro Cloud IDE a pipeline will only run if you start a run manually.

1. Click **Schedule** to see your DAG's current schedule. 

2. Set **START DATE** to yesterday's date.

    ![Schedule DAG](/img/guides/cloud_ide_schedule_dag.png)

3. Edit **CRON STRING** to schedule your DAG to run every weekday at 2:30 AM and 6:30 PM.

    ![CRON menu](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cron_menu.png)

4. Click **Update Settings** to save your schedule.

> ## Step 10: View your DAG code

Author: ```suggestion
## Step 10: View your DAG code (Optional)
```

---

> title: 'Write and schedule a simple ML pipeline using the Cloud IDE'

Reviewer: The email that went out to customers on Tuesday uses "Astro Cloud IDE", so we should probably use that.

- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).
- Basic Python. See the [Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html).
- Basic SQL. See the [W3 Schools SQL tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/).
- The Cloud IDE. See [Astro Cloud IDE](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cloud-ide).

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you need:

- An Astro account. If you are not an Astronomer customer yet and want to learn more about Astro you can [join the weekly demo](https://www.astronomer.io/events/weekly-demo/) or [contact us directly](https://www.astronomer.io/get-started/?referral=docs-nav-button).
- An account in one of the following database services, which are currently supported in the Cloud IDE: [GCP BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/quickstarts), [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/tutorial-start.html), [Snowflake](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide-getting-started.html) or [AWS Redshift](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/gsg/getting-started.html). Additionally you will need your login credentials to create the connection to your database.

> - A GitHub account with access to a private or public repository that contains an Airflow Project created by the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli) as well as a Personal Access Token for your GitHub account. If you do not have a GitHub account, you can create one for free on the [GitHub website](https://github.com/signup). To create a personal access token, see the [official GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A GitHub account with access to a private or public repository that contains an Airflow Project created by the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli) 
- A Personal Access Token for your GitHub account. To create a personal access token, see the [official GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).
```

```sql 
CREATE TABLE dog_intelligence (
    BREED varchar(50),
    HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES INT,
    HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES INT,
    WEIGHT_LOW_LBS INT,
    WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS INT,
    REPS_LOWER INT,
    REPS_UPPER INT
);
```

3. Run this SQL statement to create the file format `my_csv_format`:

```sql
CREATE FILE FORMAT my_csv_format
    TYPE = csv
    FIELD_DELIMITER = ','
    SKIP_HEADER = 1
    NULL_IF = ('NULL', 'null')
    EMPTY_FIELD_AS_NULL = true;
```

4. Use the ["Loading Using the Web Interface" wizard](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-web-ui.html) by navigating to the `dog_intelligence` table in the **Databases** tab of the Snowflake UI and clicking on **Load Table**. Select the `dog_intelligence.csv` file you downloaded as the "Source File" and `my_csv_format` as the "File Format".

![Load csv Snowflake](/img/guides/cloud_ide_load_csv.png)

:::info

The steps above are specific to using Snowflake. If you are using a different database please refer to their documentation to upload the data from the CSV file provided into a table.

:::

## Step 6: Query your table

Navigate back to your Cloud IDE on Astro.

> 1. Create your first SQL cell by clicking on **Add Cell** in the topleft corner and selecting **SQL**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create your first SQL cell by clicking **Add Cell** and selecting **SQL**. A cell is equivalent to an Airflow task. However, you don't have to know how to write an Airflow task to write a cell!
```

2. Rename your cell from `cell_1` to `query_table`.

> 3. In the right sidebar click on the top "Pipeline" icon to view your cell in the pipeline view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Pipeline** to view your cell as a data pipeline.
```

> ![Pipeline View](/img/guides/cloud_ide_pipeline_view.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Pipeline View](/img/guides/cloud_ide_pipeline_view.png)
```

> 4. Paste the following SQL code into your cell. This query will select all records that do not contain any NULL values in any column. Make sure to update the query with your database and schema name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Paste the following SQL code into your cell. This query selects all records that do not contain any `NULL` values in any column. Make sure to update the query with your database and schema name.
```

> ```sql 

Reviewer 2: Indent this fence by 4 spaces

SELECT * FROM <your database>.<your_schema>.DOG_INTELLIGENCE 
WHERE CONCAT(BREED, HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, 
WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS, REPS_UPPER, REPS_LOWER) IS NOT NULL
```

> 5. Select your Snowflake connection as shown in the screenshot below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Add your Snowflake connection to the cell as shown in the following screenshot:
```

> ![Select Snowflake Connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_select_connection.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Select Snowflake Connection](/img/guides/cloud_ide_select_connection.png)
```

> 6. Run the cell by either clicking on the play button next to the connection field or by hitting Command + Enter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Run the cell by clicking the play button next to the connection.
```

> Running the cell will create a temporary table in your database containing the output from your query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running the cell creates a temporary table in your database containing the output from your query.
```

> With the **Table Expression** box activated you should now see the output containing 136 rows below the cell.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below the cell, click **RESULTS** and tick the **Table Expression** checkbox to see the output containing 136 rows.
```

![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_query_table.png)

The dataset has 7 columns containing information about the height, weight, breed, and learning speed of different dogs. The `reps_lower` and `reps_higher` columns contain the lower and upper bounds of how many repetitions of a new command each breed of dog needed to learn it. This value is used to sort the dogs into two categories which will be the target of your classification model. The predictors will be the four columns containing height and weight information.

## Step 7: Transform your table

Before you can train the model, you first need to transform the data in your table to convert the command repetitions to a binary intelligence category.

1. Create a second SQL cell.

2. Rename the cell from `cell_1` to `transform_table`.

3. Select the same connection as in your `query_table` cell. 

4. Copy the following SQL statement into the cell:

> ```sql 

Reviewer 2: Indent the fence by 4 spaces

SELECT HEIGHT_LOW_INCHES, HEIGHT_HIGHT_INCHES, WEIGHT_LOW_LBS, WEIGHT_HIGH_LBS,
    CASE WHEN reps_upper <= 25 THEN 'very_smart_dog'
    ELSE 'smart_dog'
    END AS INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY
FROM {{query_table}}
```

> You will notice that pasting this SQL statement will automatically create a dependency between `query_table` and `transform_table` in the pipeline view on the right side of the screen (see the screenshot below). This happens because the SQL statement in `transform_table` references the temporary table created by the `query_table` task using Jinja syntax `{{query_table}}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that after you create this cell, the Cloud IDE automatically creates a dependency between `query_table` and `transform_table` in the pipeline view. This happens because the SQL statement in `transform_table` references the temporary table created by the `query_table` task using the Jinja syntax `{{query_table}}`.
```

![Table output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cell_dependency.png)

5. Run the cell.

> The output table should contain a new binary `INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY` column which will be used as a target for your classification model. All dogs who needed 25 or fewer repetitions to learn a new command are put in the `very_smart_dog` category. All other dogs are put in the `smart_dog` category (because of course, all dogs are smart).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output table should contain a new binary `INTELLIGENCE_CATEGORY` column which will be used as a target for your classification model. All dogs who needed 25 or fewer repetitions to learn a new command are put in the `very_smart_dog` category. All other dogs are put in the `smart_dog` category (because, of course, all dogs are smart).
```

## Step 8: Train a model on your data

Train a random forest model to predict the dog intelligence category of a breed based on height and weight information.

> 1. Create a new Python cell by clicking on **Add Cell** in the topleft corner and selecting **Python**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Python cell by clicking **Add Cell** and selecting **Python**. 
```

2. Rename the cell from `cell_1` to `model_task`.

3. Copy the following Python code into your cell:

> ```python

Reviewer 2: Indent this code fence by 4 spaces

# selecting predictors (X) and the target (y)
X = df.iloc[:,:-1]
y = df.iloc[:,-1]

# split the data into training data (80%) and testing data (20%)
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
    X, y, test_size=0.20, random_state=23
)

# standardize features
scaler = StandardScaler()
X_train_s = scaler.fit_transform(X_train)
X_test_s = scaler.transform(X_test)

# train a RandomForestClassifier on the training data
model = RandomForestClassifier(max_depth=3, random_state=19)
model.fit(X_train_s, y_train)

# score the trained model on the testing data
score = model.score(X_test_s, y_test)

# get feature importances
feature_importances = list(zip(X_train.columns, model.feature_importances_))

return f"baseline accuracy: {baseline_accuracy}", f"model accuracy: {score}", feature_importances 
```

You will notice again how the Cloud IDE will automatically create a dependency between the `transform_table` task and the `model_task` task. The Python code above references the `transform_table` object returned from the `tranform_table` cell directly (without Jinja syntax) on line 6. 

The Python code completes the following steps:

> - Imports necessary functions and classes from the scikit-learn package.
> - Calculates the baseline accuracy, which is the accuracy you would get if you always guessed the most common outcome (in our data `smart_dog`).
> - Separates out predictors (height and weight information) and the target (the intelligence category).
> - Splits the data into a training and testing set.
> - Standardizes the predicting features.
> - Trains a [RandomForestClassifier model](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest) on the training data.
> - Scores the trained model on the testing data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Import necessary functions and classes from the `scikit-learn` package.
- Calculate the baseline accuracy, which is the accuracy you would get if you always guessed the most common outcome (in our data `smart_dog`).
- Separate out predictors (height and weight information) and the target (the intelligence category).
- Split the data into a training and testing set.
- Standardize the predicting features.
- Train a [RandomForestClassifier model](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/ensemble.html#forest) on the training data.
- Score the trained model on the testing data.
```

4. Run the cell.

> The output of the cell will show you both the baseline and the model accuracy. With the model accuracy being higher than baseline we can conclude that height and weight of dogs have a correlation (but not necessarily causation!) with how many repetitions they need to learn a new command. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output of the cell shows you both the baseline and the model accuracy. With the model accuracy being higher than baseline, you can conclude that height and weight of dogs have a correlation (but not necessarily causation!) with how many repetitions they need to learn a new command. 
```

![Model output](/img/guides/cloud_ide_model_output.png)

The feature importances give you an idea which of the predictor columns were most important in the model to predict the intelligence category. The `weight_low_lbs`, the lower end of the weights of the dogs examined for a breed, gave the most information to the model for our small dataset.

> :::info
> 
> To learn more about random forests check out this [MLU explain article](https://mlu-explain.github.io/random-forest/).
> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about random forests check out this [MLU explain article](https://mlu-explain.github.io/random-forest/).
```

## Step 9: Pick a schedule for your pipeline

Setting a schedule for your pipeline will determine how this pipeline will be scheduled once it is deployed to Astro as a DAG. Within the Cloud IDE a pipeline will only run if you start a run manually.

> 1. Click on the calendar symbol ("Schedule") in the right sidebar to see possibilities to schedule your DAG. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Schedule** to see your DAG's current schedule. 
```

> 2. Set the "START DATE" to yesterday's date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set **START DATE** to yesterday's date.
```

> ![Schedule DAG](/img/guides/cloud_ide_schedule_dag.png)
> 
> 3. Edit the "CRON STRING" to schedule your DAG to run every weekday at 2:30am and 6:30pm.
> 
> ![CRON menu](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cron_menu.png)
> 
> 4. Click **Update Settings** to save your schedule.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Schedule DAG](/img/guides/cloud_ide_schedule_dag.png)

3. Edit **CRON STRING** to schedule your DAG to run every weekday at 2:30 AM and 6:30 PM.

    ![CRON menu](/img/guides/cloud_ide_cron_menu.png)

4. Click **Update Settings** to save your schedule.

```

## Step 10: View your DAG code

> Pipelines in the Cloud IDE offer you the possibility of running ad-hoc analysis and easy DAG development. Once you finish a pipeline and want to run it in a local Airflow instance or on Astro you will need to export your pipeline as DAG code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Through this tutorial, the Astro Cloud IDE was building a DAG based on the configurations you set in the Cloud UI. Export your pipeline as DAG code to see the results of your work.
```
Don't want to make it sound that easy to run the DAG when you export code, as there's currently no automatic way to get the connection info/ etc out of the IDE and into a local env.

> 1. Click on the "Code" tab on the right sidebar. You can see your pipeline which was automatically converted to DAG code using the [Astro SDK](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk-etl).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Code**. You can see that your pipeline was automatically converted to DAG code using the [Astro SDK](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk-etl).
```

> ![View Code](/img/guides/cloud_ide_code_view.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![View Code](/img/guides/cloud_ide_code_view.png)
```

> 2. Click **Download** in order to download the DAG file if you want to manually add it to a project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Download** to download the DAG file.
```

## Step 11: Connect your GitHub to the Cloud IDE

Now that you have trained the model, you can connect GitHub to the Cloud IDE to commit your pipeline as a DAG to any Airflow project.

> 1. Click on the GitHub **Configure** button in the topright corner of your screen to connect your Cloud IDE Project to your GitHub account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Configure** to connect your Cloud IDE Project to your GitHub account.
```

> ![Connect to GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_github_conn.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Connect to GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_github_conn.png)
```

2. Enter your personal access token and the name of an existing GitHub repository that contains an Astro project. 

3. Click update to save your connection details.

## Step 12: Commit your DAG to GitHub

> Export your DAG by commiting it to your connected GitHub repository. 

Reviewer 2: updated my suggestion, should be good to apply now!

Click the branch you want to commit to and provide a commit message. Note that you cannot commit to a branch called `main`. 

![Connect to GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_commit_to_github.png)

Your DAG will be added to the `/dags` folder in your GitHub repository.

![Dags folder on GitHub](/img/guides/cloud_ide_dags_github.png)

:::info

If you made changes to several DAGs you can select which changes to commit by checking the boxes to the left of the difference view.

:::

:::caution

If file with the same name as your Cloud IDE pipeline already exists (i.e. if you already had a file named `dog_smarts_pipeline` in the `/dags` folder of this repository) the Cloud IDE will overwrite the existing file. For this reason it is best practise to use a seperate branch for commits from your Cloud IDE environment than for commits from other sources to the same repository.

:::

## Step 13: Deploy your DAG to Astro 

> When you commit a Cloud IDE pipeline to a GitHub repository, the Cloud IDE will create a GitHub workflow of the name `astro_deploy.yaml` in case it does not exist yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you first commit a Cloud IDE pipeline to a GitHub repository, the Cloud IDE will create a GitHub workflow named `astro_deploy.yaml`. This action can be modified to fit your CI/CD workflow, or used out of the box after you configure a few environment variables. 
```

> 1. Configure [GitHub Actions](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd?tab=multibranch#github-actions) by setting the following as [GitHub secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set the following [GitHub secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) in your repository:
```

> - DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID = `<your-dev-key-id>`
> - DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET = `<your-dev-key-secret>`
> - DEV_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID = `<your-deployment-id>`
> 
> ![GitHub Secrets](/img/guides/cloud_ide_github_secrets.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID = `<your-dev-key-id>`
    - DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET = `<your-dev-key-secret>`
    - DEV_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID = `<your-deployment-id>`

    ![GitHub Secrets](/img/guides/cloud_ide_github_secrets.png)
```

2. Add the `scikit-learn` to `requirements.txt` and commit the change. This second commit will trigger GitHub Actions again, using the GitHub secrets you configured.

> If GitHub Actions is already configured for your chosen repository the new DAG will be deployed automatically with the first commit.

Reviewer 2: Need to check whether this is already handled by the IDE

> :::info

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Learn more on how to set up CI/CD with GitHub Actions in the [Astro Module: CI/CD](https://academy.astronomer.io/astro-module-cicd).

> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

:::caution

> To be able to deploy your DAG the Runtime Image used in the Airflow project of your GitHub repo needs to be compatible with the Runtime Image used in your Astro cloud deployment. You might need to change the version number in the Dockerfile of the Airflow project in your GitHub repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy your DAG, the Runtime image used in the `Dockerfile` of your Astro project needs to be the same as the Runtime image used in your Astro Deployment.
```
I'm not sure this is accurate tbh, or at least I'm not sure we need to mention this. If the GitHub project is already deployed to Astro, the Runtime versions should be the same. Deploying with a later Runtime version would automatically upgrade the Deployment, and the DAG deploy would then also be successful.

:::

## Step 14: Run your DAG on Astro

> 1. Back on Astro, click on the Astronomer logo to exit the pipeline editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, open your Deployment. 
```

> 2. Open the Airflow UI of your deployment (**Deployments** -> Your deployment -> **Open Airflow**).
> 
> 3. Make sure that your Airflow deployment has a connection with the same Connection ID and credentials configured as your Cloud IDE project.
> 
> 4. Since temporary tables are not JSON serializeable you will need to set XCom pickling to True. To do so click on **Admin** -> **Variables** in your Airflow UI and add a new variable with the **+** button. Provide the key `AIRFLOW__CORE__ENABLE_XCOM_PICKLING` and the value `True`. Click **Save**.
> 
> ![Add Variable in Airflow UI](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_variable.png)
> 
> 5. Back in the DAGs view run your DAG by clicking the play button.
> 
> ![Run DAG on Astro](/img/guides/cloud_ide_dag_ran_in_UI.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Open Airflow**

3. In the Airflow UI, configure a connection with the same values as your connection in the Astro Cloud IDE. See [Manage connections in Apache Airflow](connections.md).

4. Since temporary tables are not JSON serializable, you need to enable XCom pickling which is on by default in the Astro Cloud IDE. Go to **Admin** -> **Variables** and add a new variable with a key of `AIRFLOW__CORE__ENABLE_XCOM_PICKLING` and a value of `True`. Click **Save**.

    ![Add Variable in Airflow UI](/img/guides/cloud_ide_add_variable.png)

5. Go to **DAGs** and run your DAG by clicking the play button.

    ![Run DAG on Astro](/img/guides/cloud_ide_dag_ran_in_UI.png)
```

Reviewer 2: Should we have a step to confirm the data is appearing in their database?

## Conclusion

You now know how to use the Cloud IDE to write a simple ML pipeline! More specifically, you can now:

- Create a new Cloud IDE project and pipeline. 

> - Use a SQL cells to query and transform tables in a database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use a SQL cell to query and transform tables in a database.
```

> - Pass information between SQL and Python cells

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Pass information between SQL and Python cells.
```

> - Run a simple RandomForestClassifier on a dataset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Run a simple `RandomForestClassifier` on a dataset.
```

- Commit your pipeline to GitHub.
- Use GitHub Actions to deploy your new DAG to Astro.

> As a next step, read the [Cloud IDE documentation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cloud-ide) to learn more about this next generation DAG writing environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [Cloud IDE documentation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cloud-ide) to learn more about this next-generation DAG writing environment.
```
